Real-Time Hair Renderer
=======================

List of Features
----------------

Compiling and Running
---------------------

1. First, make sure you've changed your current directory to `vkhr`
2. Then, do: `git submodule update --init --recursive --depth 1`
    * **Description:** fetches submodule dependencies to `foreign`
3. Since we use [premake](https://premake.github.io/), you'll most likely need to fetch it as well:
    * **Windows (MinGW/WSL Bash):** do `make download-premake`!
    * **Tip:** there's pre-generated Visual Studio solutions in `build`
    * **Unix-like:** just install `premake5` with your package manager
4. Now make sure you have the [glfw3](https://www.glfw.org/) external dependency solved
    * **Visual Studio (MinGW/WSL Bash):** do `make download-glfw`
        * or manually include and link `glfw` later in the solution
    * **Unix-like:** just install `glfw` with your package manager too
5. Generate the `vkhr` project files by targeting your current setup
    * **Visual Studio:** `premake5 vs2017` or my alias `make solution`
        * then open the Visual Studio project in `build/vkhr.sln`
    * **GNU Makefiles:** `premake5 gmake` or just call `make all/run`.
6. Build as usual in your platform, and run with `bin/vkhr <scene>`.

Usage and Documents
-------------------

* `bin/vkhr [hair-scene-file]`

System Requirements
-------------------

Hardware must support Vulkan™.

Dependencies
------------

* Premake 5 (build)
* A Vulkan 1.1 SDK
* GLFW 3.2

All other dependencies are fetched using `git submodules`, and include the following libraries: `g-truc/glm`, `ocurnut/imgui`, `syoyo/tinyobjloader`, `nothings/stb`, `nlohmann/json`. The Vulkan C++ wrapper `vkpp` is being developed alongside `vkhr`.

Structure
---------

* `bin`: contains the built software and any other accompanying tools.
* `build`: stores intermediate object files and generated GNU Make files.
    * `obj`: has all of the generated object files given under compilation.
    * `Makefile`: automatically generated by executing `premake5 gmake`.
    * `*.make`: program specific make config for augmenting `Makefile`.
    * you'll also find the pre-generated Visual Studio '17 solution here.
* `docs`: any generated documentation for this project is over here.
* `foreign`: external headers and source for libraries and modules.
* `include`: only internal headers from this project should go here.
    * `vkhr`: internal headers for the Vulkan hair renderer project.
    * `vkpp`: headers for a minimal modern C++ Vulkan wrapper.
* `lib`: any generated libraries from the project reside here.
* `license.md`: please look through this very carefully.
* `premake5.lua`: configuration file for the build system.
* `readme.md`: this file contains information on the project.
* `share`: any extra data that needs to be bundled should go here.
    * `binary`: the blobs that will be used, like the hair style files.
    * `images`: any images on disk that should be used as textures.
    * `models`: the meshes/models/materials to be used in the project.
    * `shader`: all of the uncompiled shaders should go over here.
    * `scenes`: any sort of scene files (e.g. in json) should go here.
* `src`: all source code for the project should be located below here.
    * `vkhr`: source code for the Vulkan hair renderer project itself.
    * `vkpp`: full implementation of an Vulkan C++ wrapper (separate).
    * `main.cc`: the primary entry point when generating the binaries.
* `utils`: any sort of helper scripts or similar should be over here.

Reporting Bugs
--------------

There are definitely no known bugs in this software at this time.

Still, if you find anything, feel free to open an issue and I'll fix it!

Acknowledgements
----------------

Legal Notice
------------

Vulkan and the Vulkan logo are registered trademarks of Khronos Group Inc.
